README.md, before:

# OptiScaler Installer

WinForms installer and manager for OptiScaler that supports automatic game detection, per-game configuration, and add-on integration.

## Features

- Auto-detect supported games (Steam, Epic, GOG) and prefill install settings.
- Compatibility list view with detection and OptiScaler install status/version.
- Install from stable, nightly, or local OptiScaler archive (.7z).
- GPU vendor settings and OptiFG/Nukem frame generation options.
- Add-ons: Fakenvapi, Nukem FG DLL, nvngx_dlss.dll, ReShade, Special K, ASI plugins.
- Global OptiScaler.ini defaults (merge or replace) during install.
- Detect existing OptiScaler installs and offer update/reinstall/uninstall.
- Built-in installer update checker.
- Configurable URLs for lists and releases.

## Requirements

- Windows 10/11
- .NET 10 SDK (for building)
- Visual Studio 2022/2026 with WinForms workload (optional)

## Quick Start

Build:

```
dotnet build .\OptiScalerInstaller.sln
```

Run (Debug):

```
.\bin\Debug\net10.0-windows\OptiScalerInstaller.exe
```

## Usage

### Game Detection tab

- Search/filter the compatibility list.
- Click "Scan installed games" to detect Steam/Epic/GOG installs.
- Double-click a detected entry or use "Use detected" to prefill the Install tab.

### Install tab

- Select the game EXE or folder.
- Choose OptiScaler source (stable/nightly/local .7z).
- Set hook DLL name, GPU vendor, and frame generation mode.
- Install or uninstall using the Actions section.

### Add-ons tab

- Provide paths for Fakenvapi, Nukem FG, nvngx_dlss.dll, ReShade, Special K, and ASI plugins.
- Enable only what your game needs.

### Settings tab

- Update list URLs and release endpoints.
- Configure installer update URL.
- Set default OptiScaler.ini template and behavior.
- Save, reload, or load defaults.
- Open the settings file directly from the UI.

## Configuration

Settings are stored next to the executable:

- `OptiScalerInstaller.settings.json`

You can edit this file manually or use the Settings tab.

## Versioning

Build version auto-increments on each build using `BuildVersion.txt` and is emitted as `vMajor.Minor.Patch.Build`:

- Build increments every build
- Patch increments every 10 builds
- Minor increments every 100 builds
- Major increments every 1000 builds (base major starts at 1)

The window title shows the current version as `vMajor.Minor.Patch.Build`.

## Screenshots

Game Detection:

![Game Detection](docs/screenshots/game-detection.png)

Install:

![Install](docs/screenshots/install.png)

Add-ons:

![Add-ons](docs/screenshots/addons.png)

Settings:

![Settings](docs/screenshots/settings.png)

## Version History

- v1.0.3.2 - Stabilize Game Detection header layout with layout panels and fix dock order.
- v1.0.2.8 - Fix Game Detection layout spacing, dock the header/footer, and persist dark theme by default.
- v1.0.1.7 - Versioning now auto-bumps patch/minor/major every 10/100/1000 builds.
- v1.0.0.16 - Silent release refresh/update check, error logging, and comment pass cleanup.
- v1.0.0.15 - Remove FSR4 compatibility detection and related settings/UI.
- v1.0.0.14 - Improve GPU auto-detection with WMI fallback and adapter logging.
- v1.0.0.13 - Auto-detect GPU vendor and fix FSR4 list parsing.
- v1.0.0.11 - Fix updater version comparison to respect build revision.
- v1.0.0.9 - Fix install root detection, add legacy uninstall fallback, and normalize detected paths.
- v1.0.0.6 - First public release: detection list install status, default INI support, installer updater, and install action prompts.

## Notes

- Do not use OptiScaler with online games (anti-cheat risk, possible bans).
- Detection indicators are best-effort based on the wiki lists.

## Credits

- OptiScaler: https://github.com/optiscaler/OptiScaler

Commit message:

Fix list view header docking

README.md, after:

# OptiScaler Installer

WinForms installer and manager for OptiScaler that supports automatic game detection, per-game configuration, and add-on integration.

## Features

- Auto-detect supported games (Steam, Epic, GOG) and prefill install settings.
- Compatibility list view with detection and OptiScaler install status/version.
- Install from stable, nightly, or local OptiScaler archive (.7z).
- GPU vendor settings and OptiFG/Nukem frame generation options.
- Add-ons: Fakenvapi, Nukem FG DLL, nvngx_dlss.dll, ReShade, Special K, ASI plugins.
- Global OptiScaler.ini defaults (merge or replace) during install.
- Detect existing OptiScaler installs and offer update/reinstall/uninstall.
- Built-in installer update checker.
- Configurable URLs for lists and releases.

## Requirements

- Windows 10/11
- .NET 10 SDK (for building)
- Visual Studio 2022/2026 with WinForms workload (optional)

## Quick Start

Build:

```
dotnet build .\OptiScalerInstaller.sln
```

Run (Debug):

```
.\bin\Debug\net10.0-windows\OptiScalerInstaller.exe
```

## Usage

### Game Detection tab

- Search/filter the compatibility list.
- Click "Scan installed games" to detect Steam/Epic/GOG installs.
- Double-click a detected entry or use "Use detected" to prefill the Install tab.

### Install tab

- Select the game EXE or folder.
- Choose OptiScaler source (stable/nightly/local .7z).
- Set hook DLL name, GPU vendor, and frame generation mode.
- Install or uninstall using the Actions section.

### Add-ons tab

- Provide paths for Fakenvapi, Nukem FG, nvngx_dlss.dll, ReShade, Special K, and ASI plugins.
- Enable only what your game needs.

### Settings tab

- Update list URLs and release endpoints.
- Configure installer update URL.
- Set default OptiScaler.ini template and behavior.
- Save, reload, or load defaults.
- Open the settings file directly from the UI.

## Configuration

Settings are stored next to the executable:

- `OptiScalerInstaller.settings.json`

You can edit this file manually or use the Settings tab.

## Versioning

Build version auto-increments on each build using `BuildVersion.txt` and is emitted as `vMajor.Minor.Patch.Build`:

- Build increments every build
- Patch increments every 10 builds
- Minor increments every 100 builds
- Major increments every 1000 builds (base major starts at 1)

The window title shows the current version as `vMajor.Minor.Patch.Build`.

## Screenshots

Game Detection:

![Game Detection](docs/screenshots/game-detection.png)

Install:

![Install](docs/screenshots/install.png)

Add-ons:

![Add-ons](docs/screenshots/addons.png)

Settings:

![Settings](docs/screenshots/settings.png)

## Version History

- v1.0.3.4 - Restore list view headers by correcting dock order in the Game Detection layout.
- v1.0.3.2 - Stabilize Game Detection header layout with layout panels and fix dock order.
- v1.0.2.8 - Fix Game Detection layout spacing, dock the header/footer, and persist dark theme by default.
- v1.0.1.7 - Versioning now auto-bumps patch/minor/major every 10/100/1000 builds.
- v1.0.0.16 - Silent release refresh/update check, error logging, and comment pass cleanup.
- v1.0.0.15 - Remove FSR4 compatibility detection and related settings/UI.
- v1.0.0.14 - Improve GPU auto-detection with WMI fallback and adapter logging.
- v1.0.0.13 - Auto-detect GPU vendor and fix FSR4 list parsing.
- v1.0.0.11 - Fix updater version comparison to respect build revision.
- v1.0.0.9 - Fix install root detection, add legacy uninstall fallback, and normalize detected paths.
- v1.0.0.6 - First public release: detection list install status, default INI support, installer updater, and install action prompts.

## Notes

- Do not use OptiScaler with online games (anti-cheat risk, possible bans).
- Detection indicators are best-effort based on the wiki lists.

## Credits

- OptiScaler: https://github.com/optiscaler/OptiScaler
